[[← Go Back|Home]]

Contributing to the ModCabinet wiki is quite easy if you've already checked
in your mod to the Github.  Here's how!

- [Adding Your Mod to ModCabinet](#adding-your-mod-to-modcabinet)
- [Mod Name, Version, and Author](#mod-name-version-and-author)
- [Assigning Categories](#assigning-categories)
- [Licensing](#licensing)
- [Screenshots, Videos, Nexus Mods Links, and other URLs](#screenshots-videos-nexus-mods-links-and-other-urls)
- [Update Frequency / Error Reporting](#update-frequency--error-reporting)
- [Formatting your README for Maximum Results](#formatting-your-readme-for-maximum-results)

## Adding Your Mod to ModCabinet

In order to have your mods listed in the ModCabinet, they have to be uploaded
to [the main bl3mods Github repostiory](https://github.com/BLCM/bl3mods), and
they need to have an extension of `.bl3hotfix`.  There are instructions for
doing so [at the BLCMods Wiki](https://github.com/BLCM/BLCMods/wiki/Borderlands-3-Contribution).

Once you know how to do that, getting your mod in this wiki is easy: you just
need to make sure that your mod file has the required `.bl3hotfix` file
extension, and the appropriate comments up at the top of the file.  Once the
comments specify the name of your mod, and the categories it should be put
into, the BL3 ModCabinet wiki should get updated within ten minutes to include
your mod.

Basically, your mod needs to have a "header" at the top of the file, before any
of the hotfix statements (and before any free-form docs/notes you might want
to put in the file).  We now use apple1417's
[BLIMP Tagging](https://github.com/apple1417/blcmm-parsing/tree/master/blimp#tag-intepretation)
by default, which lets a variety of mods share a similar format.  (The "original"
style of BL3 mod metadata is still supported for the time being, but new mods
are encouraged to use the new format.)  For example, a mod header might look
like this:

    @title Free Respec
    @version 1.0.0
    @author Apocalyptech
    @contact https://apocalyptech.com/contact.php
    @categories cheat, economy

    @license Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)
    @license-url https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/

    ###
    ### No cost to respec skills
    ###
    ### Generated by gen_free_respec.py
    ###

The mod header could alternatively continue to use hash marks in front of the tags,
if you prefer.  For example:

    ###
    ### @title Free Respec
    ### @version 1.0.0
    ### @author Apocalyptech
    ### @contact https://apocalyptech.com/contact.php
    ### @categories cheat, economy
    ###
    ### @license Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)
    ### @license-url https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
    ###

    ###
    ### No cost to respec skills
    ###
    ### Generated by gen_free_respec.py
    ###

It's specifically the `@title`, `@author`, and `@categories` lines up there which let the
mod get sorted into the ModCabinet wiki.  Without both those, your mod won't show up.
We also pretty much require that a `@license` exists on all uploaded mods, as well (with,
optionally, a `@license-url` to point to the full text of the license).  The other
lines such as `@version and `@contact` are optional, though.

The example there uses three hash marks for comments (`###`) but that's just so that
it's a bit more visible -- you only need to use one (`#`).

## Mod Name, Version, and Author

The `@title` attribute defines the name of the mod, as it will show up in the
BL3 ModCabinet.  `@version` is entirely optional, but is a nice way for users to
know if they're using the most recent version of a mod or not.  `@author` is
mostly for the user's sake, so they can know who wrote the mod by just looking
at their files.  Note that the BL3 ModCabinet process will actually report the
username of the *directory* your mod lives in as the main author, rather than
your text here.  The info from the `@author` statement will still be included
on the ModCabinet page, though.

## Contact Info

Mod files can optionally include contact information, if you want people to be
able to find you to ask questions about the mod.  Be sure to only put information
in here which you're comfortable having publicly available!  There are three
options available: `@contact`, `@contact-email`, or `@contact-discord`.  The
"email" variant will alter the display for the wiki slightly (to use "at"
instead of `@`, and "dot" instead of `.`), but the others all just show the
text exactly as-written in the mod file, so feel free to format them however
you like.

## Assigning Categories

The current valid categories that you can use in your mod file are listed on
the [[Mod Categories]] page.  You can see in the example above that I've assigned
the mod to both the `cheat` and `economy` categories, so it'll show up on
both pages.  You need to have at least one valid category for the mod to be
included on the wiki, and you can put in as many as you feel are appropriate.
If you have more than one, be sure to have a comma inbetween each one.  You can
also put a space inbetween them, as I've done in the example, but you don't
have to.  Alternatively, you can specify multiple lines for each category:

    @categories cheat
    @categories economy

## Licensing

Licensing of your mod files is required for inclusion on the ModCabinet wiki.
Historically there have been questions about people including mods in modpacks, or
uploading them to other modding sites (like Nexus), and if you attach a
license to your mod, any ambiguity as to what people can do with it
will disappear.  If you don't specify a license, the safest assumption people
can make is that they're *only* allowed to use the mod for personal use,
but it'll be in a state of ambiguity.

The most "open" license possible is "Public Domain," which says that you're
allowed to do whatever the heck you want with the mod.  All of Apocalyptech's
BL2/TPS mods are licensed this way, for instance.

Slightly more restrictive than that are the various [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/)
licenses.  At their most permissive, they just tend to say that you can use
the mod however you like so long as you keep an attribution about who wrote
it originally.  Apocalyptech's been using [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
for his BL3 mods, which says that you can share and modify the mods all you
want, so long as you attribute Apocalyptech for the original mod, and allow
others to do the same with your modifications.

Obviously licensing is a very personal choice, and you're welcome to use
whatever you like here, but having *some* explicit license for your mods can
prevent confusion and mis-communication in the future.  Even if you just
say that "redistribution or use in mod packs is not allowed without explicit
permission," that's better than saying nothing.

## Screenshots, Videos, Nexus Mods Links, and other URLs

To link to external resources like screenshots, or to provide an alternate
download to Nexus Mods, you can specify a number of other attributes in your
header.  For instance:

    @homepage https://your-awesome-mod.biz/
    @screenshot https://i.imgur.com/ClUttYw.gif
    @screenshot https://i.imgur.com/W5BHeOB.jpg
    @video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JiEu23G4onM
    @nexus https://www.nexusmods.com/borderlands3/mods/128
    @url https://borderlands.com/en-US/news/2020-09-10-borderlands-3-patch-hotfixes-sept-10/

`@homepage` can only be specified once, and defines a main homepage for the mod,
if you happen to have one.  `@screenshot`, `@video`, and `@url` can be specified
multiple times.  Screenshots will be embedded on the wiki page, whereas Videos and
URLs will just be linked.  `@nexus` can only appear once in the file, and can
point to an alternate download location for the mod on Nexus.

## Update Frequency / Error Reporting

The process which updates the BL3 ModCabinet wiki checks for new/changed files
every ten minutes.  You can see when the wiki was last updated by visiting
the [[Wiki Status]] page.  That page will also show you any errors which
happened during the last update.  If you had a typo in one of your category
names, or something, it will show up on that page.

## Formatting your README for Maximum Results

BL3 ModCabinet will automatically include information from your README files if
it's able to understand how it's laid out.  You'll have best luck if you
format your README files with [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
(so name them `README.md`, for instance), but it will also understand
plain-text README files.

In a directory with only a single mod, make sure that the main part of
your mod description is in a section with a heading of `Description`, or
that it's at the top of the README file (or in the very first section,
if there's nothing right at the beginning).  That will be imported into
the BL3 ModCabinet wiki.  If you have a section named `Changelog`, that will
be imported into the ModCabinet page as well.  For an example of a
ModCabinet page which has pulled in all these elements, see Apocalyptech's
[[BL3 Better Loot]], which was generated using
[this README](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BLCM/bl3mods/master/Apocalyptech/loot_changes/better_loot/README.md).

In a directory with multiple mods, ModCabinet needs to have a clearly-marked
section of the README file which has the same name as the mod.  Sections
in the modfile can be marked with any of the usual Markdown-style section
headings such as hashes (`#`) or underlines (`---` or `===`), even if it's
not Markdown.  You can also use Markdown-style list syntax, where the line
containing the mod name is prefixed by a dash (`-`).  For instance, see [this README from
Akathris](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BLCM/BLCMods/master/Borderlands%202%20mods/Akathris/README.md),
from the BL2 ModCabinet wiki.

## That's it!

Just make sure that your mod has the necessary info at the top of the mod
file, and it'll get picked up the next time it's run.  If you have problems,
feel free to stop by [the community Discords](http://borderlandsmodding.com/community/)
and ask for help.  (Apocalyptech is the maintainer of this code at the moment,
if you wanted to @ him specifically.)

