[[← Go Back|Home]]

Contributing to the ModCabinet wiki is quite easy if you've already checked
in your mod to the Github.  Here's how!

- [Adding Your Mod to ModCabinet](#adding-your-mod-to-modcabinet)
- [Mod Name, Version, and Author](#mod-name-version-and-author)
- [Assigning Categories](#assigning-categories)
- [Licensing](#licensing)
- [Screenshots, Videos, Nexus Mods Links, and other URLs](#screenshots-videos-nexus-mods-links-and-other-urls)
- [Update Frequency / Error Reporting](#update-frequency--error-reporting)
- [Comments](#comments)
- [Mods Whose Filenames Start With A Hash Sign](#mods-whose-filenames-start-with-a-hash-sign-)
- [Formatting your README for Maximum Results](#formatting-your-readme-for-maximum-results)

## Adding Your Mod to ModCabinet

In order to have your mods listed in the ModCabinet, they have to be uploaded
to [the main bl3mods Github repostiory](https://github.com/BLCM/bl3mods).  There
are instructions for doing so [at the BLCMods Wiki](https://github.com/BLCM/BLCMods/wiki/Borderlands-3-Contribution).

Once you know how to do that, getting your mod in this wiki is easy: you just
need to make sure that your mod file has the appropriate comments up at the
top of the file.  Once the comments specify the name of your mod, and the
categories it should be put into, the BL3 ModCabinet wiki should get updated
within ten minutes to include your mod.

Basically, your mod needs to have a "header" at the top of the file, before any
of the hotfix statements (and before any free-form docs/notes you might want
to put in the file).  For instance, Apocalyptech's "Free Respec" mod has a header
area which looks like this:

    ###
    ### Name: Free Respec
    ### Version: 1.0.0
    ### Author: Apocalyptech
    ### Categories: cheat, economy
    ###
    ### License: Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0)
    ### License URL: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/
    ###

    ###
    ### No cost to respec skills
    ###
    ### Generated by gen_free_respec.py
    ###

It's specifically the `Name:` and `Categories:` lines up there which let the mod get
sorted into the ModCabinet wiki.  Without both those, your mod won't show up.  There's
other information specified in there which can be specified up there as well (you can
see that I've got `Version`, `License`, and `License URL`, for instance), but only
`Name` and `Categories` are required.

## Assigning Categories

The current valid categories that you can use in your mod file are listed on
the [[Mod Categories]] page.  You can see in the example above that I've assigned
the mod to both the `cheat` and `economy` categories, so it'll show up on
both pages.  You need to have at least one valid category for the mod to be
included on the wiki, and you can put in as many as you feel are appropriate.
If you have more than one, be sure to have a comma inbetween each one.  You can
also put a space inbetween them, as I've done in the example, but you don't
have to.

## Mod Name, Version, and Author

The `Name` attribute defines the name of the mod, as it will show up in the
BL3 ModCabinet.  `Version` is entirely optional, but is a nice way for users to
know if they're using the most recent version of a mod or not.  `Author` is
mostly just there for the user's sake, so they can know who wrote the mod by
just looking at their files.  The BL3 ModCabinet process will actually take your
username from the directory it's stored in, in the github area.

## Licensing

Licensing of your mod files is not required, but it's encouraged to have a
description of what other people are allowed to do with your mods.  The degree
to which licensing even makes *sense* in the case of mods like this is up for
debate.  After all, if you write a hotfix which makes a gun twice as effective,
what real *claim* can you make on the hotfix which makes it happen?

Nevertheless, the mod community's historically needed to have some boundaries
around questions like whether or not it's okay to include someone's mod in
a modpack, or if it's okay to upload something to Nexus, or to some other
site.  In general, without a license, the only thing you can assume is that
you're not allowed to do *anything* with the mod but use it for personal
use.  So, I'd recommend that you put an explicit license on the mod.

The most "open" license possible is "Public Domain," which says that you're
allowed to do whatever the heck you want with the mod.  All of Apocalyptech's
BL2/TPS mods are licensed this way, for instance.

Slightly more restrictive than that are the various [Creative Commons](https://creativecommons.org/)
licenses.  At their most permissive, they just tend to say that you can use
the mod however you like so long as you keep an attribution about who wrote
it originally.  Apocalyptech's been using [CC BY-SA 4.0](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/)
for his BL3 mods, which says that you can share and modify the mods all you
want, so long as you attribute Apocalyptech for the original mod, and allow
others to do the same with your modifications.

Obviously this is very much a personal choice, and you're welcome to use
whatever you like here, but having *some* explicit license for your mods can
prevent confusion and mis-communication in the future.

## Screenshots, Videos, Nexus Mods Links, and other URLs

To link to external resources like screenshots, or to provide an alternate
download to Nexus Mods, you can specify a number of other attributes in your
header.  For instance:

    ###
    ### Screenshot: https://i.imgur.com/ClUttYw.gif
    ### Screenshot: https://i.imgur.com/W5BHeOB.jpg
    ### Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JiEu23G4onM
    ### Nexus: https://www.nexusmods.com/borderlands3/mods/128
    ### URL: https://borderlands.com/en-US/news/2020-09-10-borderlands-3-patch-hotfixes-sept-10/
    ###

`Screenshot`, `Video`, and `URL` can be specified multiple times.  Screenshots
will be embedded on the wiki page, whereas Videos and URLs will just be
linked.  `Nexus` can only appear once in the file, and can point to an alternate
download location for the mod on Nexus.

## Update Frequency / Error Reporting

The process which updates the BL3 ModCabinet wiki checks for new/changed files
every ten minutes.  You can see when the wiki was last updated by visiting
the [[Wiki Status]] page.  That page will also show you any errors which
happened during the last update.  If you had a typo in one of your category
names, or something, it will show up on that page.

## Formatting your README for Maximum Results

BL3 ModCabinet will automatically include information from your README files if
it's able to understand how it's laid out.  You'll have best luck if you
format your README files with [Markdown](https://guides.github.com/features/mastering-markdown/)
(so name them `README.md`, for instance), but it will also understand
plain-text README files.

In a directory with only a single mod, make sure that the main part of
your mod description is in a section with a heading of `Description`, or
that it's at the top of the README file (or in the very first section,
if there's nothing right at the beginning).  That will be imported into
the BL3 ModCabinet wiki.  If you have a section named `Changelog`, that will
be imported into the ModCabinet page as well.  For an example of a
ModCabinet page which has pulled in all these elements, see Apocalyptech's
[[Speedier Sandskiffs]], which was generated using
[this README](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BLCM/BLCMods/master/Borderlands%202%20mods/Apocalyptech/Speedier%20Sandskiffs/README.md).

In a directory with multiple mods, ModCabinet needs to have a clearly-marked
section of the README file which has the same name as the mod.  Sections
in the modfile can be marked with any of the usual Markdown-style section
headings such as hashes (`#`) or underlines (`---` or `===`), even if it's
not Markdown.  You can also use Markdown-style list syntax, where the line
containing the mod name is prefixed by a dash (`-`).  For instance, see [this README from
Akathris](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/BLCM/BLCMods/master/Borderlands%202%20mods/Akathris/README.md),
which applies to mods such as [[No More Moxxi Lifesteal v1.0]].  Note that
mods in directories which contain multiple mods won't be able to read in
Changelogs, so those will never show up in ModCabinet pages.

## That's it!

Just make sure that your mod has the necessary info at the top of the mod
file, and it'll get picked up the next time it's run.  If you have problems,
feel free to stop by [Shadow's Evil Hideout](http://borderlandsmodding.com/community/)
and ask for help.  (Apocalyptech is the maintainer of this code at the moment,
if you wanted to @ him specifically.)

